

 
@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node What?, Flavors, , Introduction
 
@section What does this software do then ? 

Audio input seeded image processing. 
Hook up your CD player to the input of your sound card, 
or use your CD-ROM player (if you've got one). 
Run cthugha-L --- then play your coolest music. 
--- and wow, does your screen look like a 90's lava lamp or what? 
 
Cthugha 'listens' to your music, and changes the display dynamically 
to the sound.   
 
Ever looked at an oscilloscope of your voice or of music? ---
Think of this as an oscilloscope on acid. 
 
 



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Flavors, Fast Start, What?, Introduction
@section Flavors of Cthugha-L


@table @code

@item cthugha
displays directly on the Linux console. To do that it uses
@code{svgalib}. Because @code{svgalib} does not support new graphics
chipsets this version will slowly die. 


@item xcthugha
This program displays the graphics using X11. 


@item @code{glcthugha}
is the newest part. Using OpenGL/MesaGL you get the display in 3D. 
Of course without hardware support this is quite slow.


@item cthugha-server

This program is used to access a remove sound card. Using
@code{cthugha-server} you can use one sound card for a lot of other
machines to run Cthugha.

Simply start @code{cthugha-server} on a machine with soundcard.
Then run Cthugha on any machine, but use the additional parameter
@code{-N hostname}
@footnote{@code{hostname} is the name of the machine
running @code{cthugha-server}}.

@end table



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Fast Start, Buffer and Display, Flavors, Introduction
@section Fast Start

To use Cthugha for the first time you will need just one parameter,
describing what sound source it should use.

Here are some examples. 

@table @code

@item xcthugha -L 100
to start with sound coming from Line in.

@item xcthugha -C 100 -c 1
to start with sound coming from CD and to start playing track 1 of the
CD. It is a good idea to put an audio CD in the drive before you do that.

@item xcthugha -x
to just use some random noise

@end table


This should be already quite nice, but the display is very small. 
To get a bigger window you need two more options described in the
next section.


@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Buffer and Display, , Fast Start, Introduction
@section Buffer and Display

Cthugha uses two options to control the size of the screen.

@table @code
@item -S 
to specify the size of the buffer. You can use a small integer value for
a predefined size or use whatever size you like. 
For example @code{-S 2} or @code{-S 374x234}.

Bigger buffers usually look better, but take more time to compute.
I suggest @code{-S 1} or @code{-S 2}, depending on what computer you
have.

@item -D
is used to define how big the window for drawing should be. Again you
use a predefined value or some special value. Predefined Buffer and
Display sizes match, so @code{-S 2 -D 2} makes sense.

But maybe you would like to have a big window, but your computer has not
enough power to update the buffer fast enough. Then you can specify a
bigger display. For example @code{-S 2 -D 3} 
@footnote{Use @code{--full-screen} to make the display as big as
possible}.

@end table

