@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Other Things, ,Technical Stuff, Top

@chapter Other Things


@menu
* Other OS::            Cthugha for DOS and PowerMac
* TIPS::                "Quer durch den Gemuesegarten"
@end menu




@node Other OS, Good CDs, , Other Things
@section Other Operating Systems

You can find the other versions at the Cthugha home page
@code{http://www.afn.org/cthugha}.


@itemize @bullet
@item @strong{DOS} - Cthugha V5.1 and V5.3

This version of Cthugha-L is based on cthugha V5.1 and V5.3 by
Kevin Burfitt. Most things 
from the DOS-version work exactly the same way in the Linux-Version. 
Cthugha-L has a lot of additional features.


@item @strong{PowerMac} - MaCthugha

Rus Maxham (@code{rus@@interstice.com}) has done a port of Cthugha for the
PowerMac.


@item @strong{xf86cthugha}.

A special version of Cthugha-L supporting DGA
(Direct Graphics Access) with XFree86. 

Mark Vojkovich (@code{mvojkov@@ucsd.edu}) has done this version. You
can also find it at @code{ftp.afn.org} or via the WWW page. 

DGA support is now fully integrated into this distribution. You can use
@code{xcthugha --dga} to enable this feature.


@item @strong{Win95}.

Kevin Burfitt (@code{zaph@@torps.apana.org.au}) is currently working on a
new version of Cthugha for Windows 95. 

@end itemize





@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node TIPS, ,Good CDs, Other Things
@section TIPS

@table @strong
@item How can I register Cthugha ?

You can send me a postcard, its all I ask...  if you have too much money 
and don't know what to do with it, then send me a CD of something that  
looks cool with Cthugha!

If you write your postcard in German (or some other language having
@emph{Sie} and @emph{Du}), please use the @emph{Du} (I'm not that
important).  

Please send me more postcards!


@item I think I found a bug - what can I do ?

Please mail me and tell me about it, I will try to fix it. 
It can always happen that I miss
something when I release a new version. 


@item I can't remember how to spell CTHUGHA.

Well here's how Zaph remembers: 
@enumerate
@item It starts with a 'C' 
@item It's got the word 'THUG' in it 
@item Followed by 'HA' 
@end enumerate
Easy, really (You'd be surprised how many permutations we get) 


@item @code{xcthugha --saver}, @code{xcthugha --dga}

@code{xcthugha} has some problems getting the correct colors, when
running under certain window managers. Now I found a workaround for that
problems. 

There is only one thing you should do: Set your window manager so, that 
it does not decorate the windows named "xcthugha-saver" and "xcthugha-dga".         
Take a look at the manual of your window manager, how to do that.

It is possible, that this is not working for some very strange window
manager. If you have any problems (or a solution) please tell me about
it.

 

@item So you want to add/modify the source code

@table @emph
@item Rule #1:
Go for it!!!  This is a free project - make it big! 

@item Rule #2:
Send me some Email telling me which bits you are playing with, 
and I will keep you up to date if I (or anyone else) make any 
major changes to the code. 

@item Rule #3:  
Put your name/email address in the code, that way you get to 
share the fame :-) 

@item Rule #4:  
There is no Rule #4

@item Rule #5:
@emph{Please} keep me up to date, with any little functions or ideas 
you have... The program is evolving quickly, and I'd love to 
incorporate your ideas! 

@item Rule #6:  
Translation tables: 
If you design a weird and wonderful translation table, send 
me either the table or (even better) the code used to generate it! 

@item Rule #7: 
Don't Panic

@end table


@item When using FFT, 
don't set the sample rate too high (not higher
than 22000 Hz). Many sound sources (radio) don't have any frequency
parts above that limit --- so half of FFT buffer will be a flat line.


@item How to show Cthugha on the wall?

There are a lot of methods for doing that. 
@table @emph
@item Video projectors
Like a dia projector, only that you connect your
computer and look. This is expensive.

@item Overhead projectors
Special device you connect to your computer
and use with the overhead projector.
Also expensive.

@item Warper
Build your own projector device. See the included text file
@code{warper.txt} (by Noah Spurrier). This is cheap. 

@end table


@item Some more tips

@itemize @bullet
@item You can use all you map files from fractint.
Most are included in the extra distribution.

@item Use "strange" buffer sizes. 1024x70 is good as a screen saver
for a slow machine.

@item Send me a postcard. I have received not too many so far.
@end itemize

@end table









